Exercise 2 {#ch10:ex2 .unnumbered}
----------

![Exercise 2: Complete Linkage
Clustering[]{data-label="fig:ch10e2a"}](../img/ch10e2a.png){width="95.00000%"}

![Exercise 2: Single Linkage
Clustering[]{data-label="fig:ch10e2b"}](../img/ch10e2b.png){width="95.00000%"}

1.  See Figure \[fig:ch10e2a\]

2.  See Figure \[fig:ch10e2b\]

3.  The first cluster would contain observations 1 and 2, while the
    second cluster contains 3 and 4.

4.  The first cluster would contain observations 1 and 2, while the
    second cluster contains 3 and 4.

5.  In Figure \[fig:ch10e2a\], flip the position of the labels 3 and 4.

Exercise 4 {#ch10:ex4 .unnumbered}
----------

1.  The fusion of the complete linkage dendrogram will occur at a height
    greater than or equal to that of the single linkage dendrogram.

2.  They will fuse at the same height.

Exercise 6 {#ch10:ex6 .unnumbered}
----------

1.  Denote the first principal component of $X^\top$ by by $\vv_1$ and
    let the $i$-th column of $X^\top$ be denoted by $\xv_i$. Then
    $\vv_1$ explains a fraction, say $\alpha$, of the variation in the
    data if $$\begin{aligned}
                \alpha = \frac{\Var(\vv_1)}{\sum_{i=1}^{1000} \Var(\xv_i)}.
            \end{aligned}$$ Here $\alpha = 0.1$.

2.  Assuming that the objective here is to prevent the differences
    caused by the machines A and B from interfering with the t-test, the
    researcher should split the data set $X$ in to two, $X_A$ and $X_B$,
    such that each data set contains only data recorded from one
    machine. Now, perform the t-test separately on both the data sets.
    Say the null hypothesis “the measurements do not differ”. Then,
    reject the null hypothesis only if it is rejected by both of the
    data sets.

    If you must use a single data matrix, then add a row to $X$ that
    indicates the machine used to record the tissue sample. Now use PCA
    and find the component with the largest loading for the ‘machine’
    predictor. Remove this component from the data instead of the first
    component as indicated in the question.
